Restorative Offering to the Eight Classes
by Nubchen Sangye Yeshe

Homage to the sacred masters!
In a pure, clean place, arrange the deity torma, the representation of Mount Meru, the select
offering of milk, a variety of flowers, medicinal plants, the three sweets offerings, different
kinds of meat, medicines, grains, various kinds of cloth and whatever foodstuffs you
have. Then, taking refuge and generating bodhicitta, meditate on yourself as your chosen
deity,1 and blessing the substances with the six mantras and six mudrās, in a state of samādhi,
recite the following:
hung, ku sum gyü sum lama dang
Hūṃ! Masters of the three kāyas and three lineages,
yidam shyitrö lhatsok dang
All you peaceful and wrathful yidam deities,
kyabné könchok sumpo dang
The sources of refuge, the Buddha, Dharma and Saṅgha, and
khandro norlha chösung sok
Ḍākinīs, wealth deities, guardians of the Dharma, and the rest–
chöyul gongma tamché la
To all of you higher objects of offering,
chöpa dampa di bul lo
We make these sacred offerings!
serkyem tsangma di shyé la
Accept this pure golden drink2
dak gi dödön drub tu sol
And accomplish all our wishes, we pray!
1. The Outer Eight Classes
lhayi wangpo gyajin dang
Chief of the gods, Indra and
lu yi wangpo gawo dang
Chief of the nāgas, Nanda and
lhamin wangpo takzangri
Chief of the asuras, Vemacitra,
miamchi jön tagochen
Of the kiṃnaras, the horse-headed King Druma,
nöjin gangwa zangpo dang
Of yakṣas, Pūrṇabhadra and
khading sermik khyilwa dang
Of garuḍas, Suvarṇākṣa and
chökyong mahakala dang
Of dharmapālas, Mahākāla and
driza zurpü ngapa sok
Of gandharvas, Pañcaśikha and the rest
chi yi dé gyé khor ché la
To you, the outer eight classes, along with your retinues,
chöpa dampa di bul lo
We make these sacred offerings!
serkyem tsangma di shyé la
Accept this pure golden drink
dak gi dödön drub tu sol
And accomplish all our wishes, we pray!
2. The Inner Eight Classes
yabchik düjé nakpo dang
Lord of māras, Yapchik Düjé Nakpo, and
tsengyal yamshü marpo dang
King of the tsens, the red Yamshü, and
yullha chasang lu sé dang
Of the local deities, Chasang Lusé and
sokdak gyalpo nyingjin dang
Of the lords of life-force, King Nyingjin and
chökyong nöjin marpo dang
Of dharmapālas, the ‘Red Yakṣa’ and
lhamo jikpé lokjin dang
Of goddesses, Jikpé Lokjin and
genyen dorjé lekpa dang
Of upāsakas, Vajrasādhu3 and
karmo nyida tötreng sok
Karmo Nyida, Tötreng and the rest,
nang gi dé gyé khor ché la
To you, the inner eight classes, along with your retinues,
chöpa dampa di bul lo
We make these sacred offerings!
serkyem tsangma di shyé la
Accept this pure golden drink
dak gi dödön drub tu sol
And accomplish all our wishes, we pray!
3. The Secret Eight Classes
düpo khatün raksha dang
The māra, Khatun Rakṣa and
shinjé shepo marnak dang
The yama, Shepo Marnak and
ludü nagaradza dang
The nāga demon, Nāgarāja and
nöjin shenpa dritok dang
The yakṣa, Shenpo Tritok and
mamo sipa trom deb dang
The mātṛkās,4 Sipa Trom Dep and
tsenpo yamshü soklen dang
The tsen, Yamshü Soklen and
düpo reté goyak dang
The māra, Reté Goyak and
sokdak dunggi tortsuk sok
The lord of the life-force, Dunggi Tortsuk and the rest,
sangwé dé gyé khor ché la
To you, the secret eight classes and your retinues,
chöpa dampa di bul lo
We make these sacred offerings!
serkyem tsangma di shyé la
Accept this pure golden drink
dak gi dödön drub tu sol
And accomplish all our wishes, we pray!
4. The Supreme Eight Classes
za chok gyalpo rahula
The supreme planetary protector, King Rāhula,
kar chok tramshing khator dang
The supreme white one, Tramshing Khathor and
dü chok manu raksha dang
The supreme māra, Manurakṣa and
tsen chok dritsen tumpo dang
The supreme tsen, Dritsen Tumpo and
ma chok chechang dungdzin dang
The supreme mātṛkā, Chekyang Dungdzin and
lu chok lugyal dungkyong dang
The supreme nāga, King of nāgas, Ś́aṅkhapāla and
gön chok nakpo tékar dang
The supreme gönpo, Nakpo Tékar and
gyal chok lijin hara sok
The supreme sovereign, Lijin Hara and the rest:
chok gi dé gyé khor ché la
To you, the supreme eight classes, with your retinues,
chöpa dampa di bul lo
We make these sacred offerings!
serkyem tsangma di shyé la
Accept this pure golden drink
dak gi dödön drub tu sol
And accomplish all our wishes, we pray!
5. The Emanating Eight Classes
pung yé dralhar trulpa dang
The right shoulder emanates as dralhas,
pung yön mamor trulpa dang
The left shoulder emanates as mātṛkās,
chuso dü du trulpa dang
The lips and teeth manifest as māras,
gowo sinpor trulpa dang
The head emanates as rākṣasas,
jukma mu ru trulpa dang
The back emanates as mu spirits,
lak yé shinjer trulpa dang
The right hand manifests as yamas,
lak yön lu tsen trulpa dang
The left hand manifests as nāgas and tsens, and
mik dang nying dang chewa sum
The eyes and heart and canine teeth–these three emanate
zadü nyi du trulpa sok
As planetary forces and māras, and so on,
trulpé dé gyé khor ché la
To you, the emanating eight classes, with your retinues,
chöpa dampa di bul lo
We make these sacred offerings!
serkyem tsangma di shyé la
Accept this pure golden drink
dak gi dödön drub tu sol
And accomplish all our wishes, we pray!
6. The Eight Classes of the Universe
sadak hal khyi nakpo dang
The earth lord Hel Khyi Nakpo and
ludü dolpa nakpo dang
The nāga demon Dolpa Nakpo and
sa yi lhamo tenma dang
The goddesses of the earth, the Tenma and
chokkyong gyalchen dé shyi dang
The guardians of the directions, the Four Great Kings5 and
gönpo dünchu tsa nga dang
The seventy-five protectors and
yul di shyidak tamché dang
All the local deities of this place and
polha dralha soklha dang
To pholha, drahla, soklha and
molha momen lasokpa
To molha, momen, and the rest
nangsi dé gyé tamché la
To you, the eight classes of the universe, along with your retinues,
chöpa dampa di bul lo
We make these sacred offerings!
serkyem tsangma di shyé la
Accept this pure golden drink
dak gi dödön drub tu sol
And accomplish all our wishes, we pray!

Whatever the task, whether it be protecting against hail, warding off repetitive deaths among
children, making a thread-cross and ransom offering, or casting zors6 and the like, if you
do not perform this offering to the eight classes as a preliminary, it is compared to a
child building a sand-castle. A preliminary to any kind of action, this restorative offering
to the eight classes composed by Nub Sangyé Yeshé is complete. Sarva maṅgalaṃ!

| Rigpa Translations. Edited for Lotsawa House as part of the Longchen Nyingtik Project, 2020.
↑ Tib. yi dam.↑ Tib. gser skyems.↑ Tib. Dorje Lekpa (rdo rje legs pa).↑ Tib. Mamo (ma mo).↑
The Four Great Kings are: Dhṛtarāṣṭṛa ('Defender of the Area') is the Guardian King of the
East and chief of the gandharvas, the musicians of the heavens. Virūḍhaka ('Noble Birth')
Guardian King of the South and leader of the kumbhandas, fierce beings who reside in the
desire realms of the heavens. Virupākṣa ('Ugly Eyes') Guardian King of the West and leader
of the nāgas.  Vaiśravaṇa ('Son of He who has Heard Many Things') Guardian King of the North
and leader of the yakṣas.↑ Zors (zor) are substances or objects that, through ritual and
mantra recitation, are charged with magical powers. In most cases these zors are small
pyramids made of dough. They are placed around the main torma (gtor ma) and through the ritual
charged with magical power. Throwing the zors releases their magical power which is directed
toward an enemy. For more information, see: René de Nebesky-Wojkowitz, Oracles and
Demons of Tibet, (Kathmandu, Nepal: Book Faith India, 1996), 354-358.